[Music]
so check this out
what happened when I decided to sleep
for four hours a day so do you ever
think about how cool it would be if
there were more hours in a day you could
easily have time for everything work
hobbies friends and family or just
lazing around doing nothing at all but
enough dreaming let's get back to
reality
the only way to make it happen is by
sleeping less but would then actually
work without turning you into a tired
grouch well Brightside spoke to a man
who one day decided that sleeping is for
the weak and adjusted his daily routine
to leave only two to four hours for
sleep and here's what he said where did
the idea come from rumor has it that
great minds like leonardo da vinci
Nikola Tesla Salvador Dali and a whole
slew of other geniuses of the like
practice so-called polyphasic sleep
which mean they slept for only about one
to four hours a day in a nutshell
polyphasic sleep is a sleep pattern
where you drastically cut your bed time
during the night and add a couple of
twenty to thirty minute naps throughout
the day it sounds a bit crazy but in the
end you'll wind up with a few additional
days every week plus the most crucial
stage of sleep known as rapid eye
movement sleep lasts exactly 20 to 30
minutes and this is the peak time for
your brain to recharge and de-stress
just like many other people I'm pretty
much always short of time every month I
decide that I want to start going to the
pool regularly but instead I go home lie
down and binge on another YouTube
marathon
I'm usually late for meetings and I
procrastinate all my important tasks
until the next day so at one point I
decided that enough is enough and the
time has come to try polyphasic sleep
[Music]
before we go any further you should know
that polyphasic sleep has a couple of
possible schedules to pick from if you
want to try it you can choose between
five standard ones or from those
practice by history's finest like
Winston Churchill who slept for six and
a half hours a day or Nikola Tesla who
preferred to leave two hours and 20
minutes for snoozing you can also do
what I did and make up your own schedule
there are also different online time
schedule calculators that can help you
with that
so my final sleep schedule consisted of
four hours of sleep at night and two
twenty five minutes sleep breaks during
the day when after lunch and the other
after my work chef here's how the next
couple of days win
day one the experiment started out
fantastically to be honest I went to bed
at 1:30 a.m. and woke up at 5:30 I had
plenty of extra time before work
so I finally did all the housework and
made it to-do list for the entire week
to keep up with the schedule
I brought a sleep mask and earplugs to
work after lunch I just found a quiet
place to really relax and try to fall
asleep I tried the same thing at home
but I couldn't fall asleep within 25
minutes well I guess that'll change in
the next few days day two before I
started this experiment I had talked to
a couple of people that tried it and
managed to master this type of sleeping
pattern they warned me that it takes
several weeks to get used to it until
then especially for the first two weeks
you basically feel like a zombie and
this is exactly what happened to me on
day two I was incredibly tired and
emotionally drained day 3 at this point
there was no today or tomorrow all the
days turned into one big blur but I was
finally able to fall asleep during like
25-minute breaks
however I didn't feel any better after
them every now and then I thought to
myself why on earth am I doing this I
should just go to bed it took a lot of
effort in willpower to overcome this
rough patch and continue the experiment
day four the blurry state of mind became
almost a norm for me if someone started
to talk to me I just stood there and
stared blankly ahead of me it took too
much energy for me to keep up a
conversation or even simply reply to
questions I spend most of my time
staring off into space my appearance
also changed in the first four days and
definitely not for the better
I looked way paler and my eyes were
constantly bloodshot with dark circles
under them maybe the worst is over and
it's going to get better from here day
five I started getting a little
accustomed to my new sleep schedule as
soon as they close my eyes for a
25-minute nap I could immediately enter
deep sleep I even woke up earlier than I
needed to
and still felt a bit rested I also had a
lot of free time at night so I decided
to read more books and watch more
documentaries that's how I found out
about a tribe in Brazil called the
piryohae people in this tribe never
fully sleep they just take 20-minute
naps leaning back against a tree from
time to time they believe that when you
sleep for too long you become less and
less yourself that's some deep
introspective stuff right plus they
don't like sleeping in general so that
helps
day six and seven I finally got fully
used to polyphasic sleep almost every
time I woke up from my naps I felt like
I had been sleeping for a solid few
hours instead of just 25 minutes mental
blocks and cloudiness completely
vanished and my work capacity went back
to normal I managed to do more than I
had ever imagined I could I was reading
books and watching movies every evening
and I was able to stop drinking coffee
entirely not to mention I started going
to the pool with long-last so I'm back
on track days eight through ten my
creativity and stamina improves
significantly due to the fact that I
could properly recharge my brain in time
and regain my strength after the
afternoon nap it felt like a whole day
had gone by and I was able to find the
best solution to a problem I couldn't
figure out earlier all of the obvious
signs of my exhaustion had disappeared -
and my complexion went back to how it
was before my experiment continued to
give some great results I felt all right
and was more productive than ever
days 11 through 14 at this point I
decided not to stick to any certain
sleeping schedule and just let my body
decide for itself when the best time to
rest was and I felt really comfortable
this way I also pushed myself a little
to know more about my limits so I kept
sleeping less and less through the night
it turned out that two and a half hours
of nighttime sleep is enough for me if I
have my daytime naps if I want to sleep
even less at night I should just add one
more sleep break and that's it that's
basically how I do it now the pros and
cons of polyphasic sleep
[Music]
number one productivity I managed to
knock out my entire days to-do list
before lunchtime if this isn't the goal
then I don't know what is it's become
way easier to solve any problems and
complete all my castes number two no
more alarm clocks I've started to notice
that I wake up before the alarm clock
even rings and I don't feel so grumpy
about it either
I'm just ready to hop up and get things
done number three healthy food it was
hard to fall asleep on a full stomach so
during my experiment I ate mostly light
meals and natural foods the result was
obvious the feeling of heaviness in my
stomach disappeared I became more active
and I even saved some cash it was
definitely worth it number four more
exercise and books with less time spent
sleeping I had more time to develop
myself both physically and mentally I've
read all the books I wanted to and I
started going to the gym in the swimming
pool all this has resulted in me getting
sick less often and feeling much more
robust
Kahn's number one days turn into one big
blur we're all used to thinking of days
as a series of dusts and Dawn's but with
polyphasic sleep the days all become an
endless time stream dusk and dawn are
just signals for people to fall asleep
or to wake up and nothing more number
two no more partying I think I entered a
serious more mentally mature phase of my
life during this experiment from that
time on there were no go hard or go home
parties or nights out with friends and
don't even get me started on alcohol it
ruins the whole schedule
I guess productivity requires sacrifices
number three health-wise it's not for
everybody in the beginning of the
experiment the drastic changes in your
sleep are very hard for your nervous and
circulatory systems so be careful do
your research and learn more about this
topic before you start
my thoughts after the experiment if your
life is like one big to-do list that you
just can't seem to keep up with then
polyphasic sleep is probably for you all
jokes aside I definitely became more
productive and I have a lot of spare
time that allows me to do everything I
want and even more on the other hand it
can be difficult since the whole world
is on a completely different regimen
your friends and family might think it's
weird when you tell them you can't go
out with them or ask them to pause a
movie so you can take a nap
in any case it's your choice to make
just do your homework first
and then go for it if this sort of
dramatic change isn't for you don't
worry there are still lots of things you
can do to improve your productivity
first of all when you're trying to get
something done turn off your phone
it might sound a bit silly but your
phone is a huge distraction you'll reply
to one message here read some news there
and within a few minutes you're on
Instagram checking out celebrity
profiles or on Twitter debating some new
topic just put it down or turn on
airplane mode trust us your level of
productivity will definitely increase
secondly stop waiting for the perfect
moment if you want to do something just
do it all the obstacles and roadblocks
are in your head in real life it doesn't
matter
whether you start something on Monday or
Thursday what really matters is how much
you've worked on it another thing is a
messy workplace you won't ever be able
to do something quickly if your
workplace isn't tidy it just takes more
time to find things and stresses you out
even more so clean it all up
and learn to keep it that way it's no
surprise that people you surround
yourself with make a huge difference to
try to steer clear from negative nancies
and Debbie downers you won't get any
good energy or inspiration from people
who are always depressed for the sake of
being depressed
they'll instead just criticize all your
ideas and make you doubt yourself and
finally learn to say no
it's a magical word that everyone should
know don't overload yourself with too
many tasks some of which you don't even
care about value your time and spend it
on stuff that makes you happy and
exciting do you have any tips of your
own on how to be more productive tell us
in the comment section below don't
forget to hit the like button and share
this video with all of your friends
maybe you'll find someone that would
like to try a polyphasic sleep schedule
with you subscribe to our Channel
[Music]